.TH container_check 8 "2018/04/23" "Red Hat, Inc" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
container_check - Tool to verify host is configured to run containers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B container_check
[\fB\-\-checks\fR \fIPATH[:PATH]\fR]
[\fB\-\-debug\fR \fI\fR]
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-\-help\fR \fI\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR \fI\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Tool to verify host is configured for running containers.
.br
The tool executes each script/program found on the \fB--checks\fR path, output from the executable is captured and reported.
.br
When packaged in a container, Volumes are used to mount the host directories into the container for processing.
The container will also require privileged access.
Where possible the default checks use python bindings vs executing commands.
Using \fB--checks\fR and an additional volume you make may either add additional custom checks or override all the defaults.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP PYTHONPATH
Set to make imports from python check scripts to find checking.utils as expected.
.IP DEBUG
Set if \fB--debug\fR was given.  Allows check scripts to log debugging events
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " PATH[:PATH]" \fR, "\fB \-\-checks" \fR=\fIPATH[:PATH]  \fR
Path(s) to discover checks. Formatted like system PATH.  Default: ./checks
.TP
.BI \-d "" \fR, "\fB \-\-debug" \fR
Log debugging events
.TP
.BI \-f " FORMAT" \fR, "\fB \-\-format" \fR=\fIFORMAT\fR
Logging format to be used for reporting. See Python logging library.
Default:
.PP
.nf
.RS
.ft C
\'%(asctime)s | %(levelname)-7s | %(script)-20s | %(message)s\'
.ft
.RE
.fi
.PP
where \fIscript\fR is the filename of the check being run.
.TP
.BI \-h "" \fR, "\fB \-\-help" \fR
Print tool usage
.TP
.BI \-v " " \fR, "\fB \-\-version" \fR
Print tool version
.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP 0
No error were logged
.IP 1
There was an error logged in running the tool
.IP 2
The host failed to be validated
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
.RS
.ft C
$ export VOLUMES=\\
-v /etc:/host/etc:ro \\
-v /run:/host/run:ro \\
-v /sys:/host/sys:ro \\
-v /usr:/host/usr:ro \\
-v /var:/host/var:ro

$ container run...--privileged ${VOLUMES} \fB./container_check\fR
.ft
.RE
.fi
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Python logging (https://docs.python.org/library/logging.html), podman(8)

.SH HISTORY
April 2018, written Jhon Honce (jhonce at redhat dot com)
